Cisco Packet Tracer is a powerful network simulation software developed by Cisco Systems. It is widely
used for educational purposes, especially in the Cisco Networking Academy, to help students and professionals
learn about networking concepts, design networks, and practice configurations in a virtual environment. Packet
Tracer provides a realistic simulation of network devices, such as routers, switches, and computers, and allows
users to build, configure, and troubleshoot networks without needing physical hardware.
To install Cisco Packet Tracer on Ubuntu, follow these steps:
Download Cisco Packet Tracer
You need a Cisco Networking Academy account to download the software. Follow these steps to get the installer:
1. Visit the Cisco Networking Academy website.
2. Log in with your account or create one.
3. Navigate to the "Resources" section and find Packet Tracer.
4. Download the .deb package for Linux.
Install Dependencies
Before installing Packet Tracer, ensure that all necessary dependencies are installed:
Open your terminal and run:
sudo apt update
sudo apt install libdouble-conversion3 libqt5webkit5 libqt5multimedia5 libqt5multimedia5-plugins
libqt5multimediawidgets5 libqt5script5 libqt5sql5 libqt5sql5-sqlite libqt5xml5 qml-module-qtquick2 qmlmodule-qtquick-layouts qml-module-qtquick-window2 qml-module-qtgraphicaleffects
Install Cisco Packet Tracer
Once you've downloaded the .deb file, follow these steps to install it:
1. Open the terminal and navigate to the directory where the downloaded file is located.
2. Run the following command to install the .deb package:
sudo dpkg -i packettracer_<version>.deb
(Replace <version> with the actual version number of the downloaded file.)
3. If you encounter dependency issues, run:
sudo apt --fix-broken install
Launch Cisco Packet Tracer
After installation, you can launch Packet Tracer either by searching for it in your applications menu or running
it via the terminal:
packettracer
Troubleshooting
• If Packet Tracer doesn't launch, ensure that all dependencies were successfully installed.
• You may need to reboot your system after installation for the changes to take effect.



: Cisco Packet Tracer is a comprehensive and versatile tool for learning, teaching, and practicing
networking concepts. With its realistic device simulation, robust network design capabilities, and extensive
educational features, it is an essential resource for anyone looking to gain hands-on experience in networking
without needing physical hardware.