AIM: Implementation of socket programming.
DESCRIPTION:
Socket programming is a way to enable communication between two computers or applications over a
network, whether it’s local (like on a LAN) or over the internet. Sockets facilitate this communication by
establishing a bidirectional link between client and server processes, allowing them to send and receive data
in real time. This forms the foundation of networked applications, including web servers, chat applications,
multiplayer games, and more.
In Python, the socket module provides functions and classes for working with network connections, enabling
us to create sockets that can communicate using different protocols like TCP (for reliable, connection-based
communication) and UDP (for fast, connectionless communication).
Key Socket Methods in Python 
Here's an overview of commonly used socket methods in Python:
1. Creating a Socket
socket.socket(family, type)
o AF_INET: Specifies the address family for IPv4.
o SOCK_STREAM: Specifies the type of socket for TCP, a reliable connection-oriented
protocol.
2. Binding to an Address (Server Side)
socket.bind((ip_address, port))
o Binds the socket to a specific IP address and port, setting it up to listen for connections on
that address.
3. Listening for Connections (Server Side)
socket.listen(backlog)
o Sets up the socket to listen for incoming connections, with backlog controlling how many
connections it can queue.
4. Accepting a Connection (Server Side)
client_socket, address = socket.accept()
o Accepts a connection from a client, returning a new socket for communication and the
client’s address.
5. Connecting to a Server (Client Side)
socket.connect((ip_address, port))
o Establishes a connection to a specified IP address and port on the server.
6. Sending and Receiving Data

o Sending: socket.send(data)
Sends data to the connected socket. Data must be in bytes, so text is typically encoded (e.g.,
.encode("utf-8")).
o Receiving: socket.recv(buffer_size)
Receives data from the socket up to the specified buffer_size in bytes. The received bytes are
usually decoded into a string.
7. Closing the Connection
socket.close()
Closes the socket, ending the communication. Both client and server must close their sockets when
they’re done.
These methods enable the fundamental operations of socket programming, allowing you to establish
connections, exchange data, and close connections between client-server pairs.

CONCLUSION:
Socket programming in Python provides a powerful way to implement network-based communication
between devices, enabling the creation of a wide range of applications, from web servers to chat systems. By
using the socket module’s core methods, we can set up reliable TCP connections, manage data transfer, and
gracefully close connections when communication is complete.